EDU-594: Add fusion licensing documentation (#415)
seqeralabs/docs: fusion_docs/licensing.mdx

---
title: Fusion licensing
description: "Overview of how Fusion licensing works"
date: "30 Jan 2025"
tags: [fusion, storage, compute, file system, posix, client]
---

You need a license to use the Fusion file system and the license is bundled with your Seqera Enterprise license. Additionally, if you have a Studios license, you don't need a Fusion license to use Fusion with your studios. All Studios templates include Fusion.

From Fusion 2.4.7 license enforcement is applied.

## Usage limits

> Cloud free-tier customers are limited to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloud free-tier customers and Academic Program users are limited to:
```

License checks occur when a pipeline run starts, and execution is never interrupted if license expiration happens during a run.

> If Fusion is unable to verify the license provided by Nextflow, the pipeline exits with an error. If the license is valid, but expires between retrieval and validation by Fusion, Nextflow exits with an error code.

Reviewer: @ewels, I inadvertently resolved your feedback. 

@jason-seqera, what is the difference in behavior a license that can't be verified and one that's valid but expires? Is there a different error code? Or can we say something like: 

```suggestion
If Fusion is unable to validate the license provided by Nextflow, the pipeline will exit with an error message. If the license is valid, but expires between retrieval and validation by Fusion, Nextflow will stop and an error code will be displayed.
```

The JWT is generated correctly and passed to fusion, but is invalid for whatever reason (e.g. it was valid when it was generated, but it expired before fusion actually verified it). In this case, fusion will refuse to run and nextflow will stop due to this. The error message emitted in this case is not related to the one above, but rather an exit code error.

> If Fusion is unable to verify the license provided by Nextflow, the pipeline exists with an error. If the license is valid, but expires between retrieval and validation by Fusion, Nextflow exits with an error code.

Reviewer 2: typo: exists

Also, aren't these two things basically the same?

> If Fusion is unable to verify the license provided by Nextflow, the pipeline exists with an error. If the license is valid, but expires between retrieval and validation by Fusion, Nextflow exits with an error code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Fusion is unable to verify the license provided by Nextflow, the pipeline exits with an error. If the license is valid, but expires between retrieval and validation by Fusion, Nextflow exits with an error code.
```

For more information on using Fusion with Nextflow, see [Get started][get-started].

## Seqera Cloud

If you are a Cloud customer, your license entitlement for Fusion is managed by Seqera.

Cloud free-tier customers are subject to the following usage limits:

- Maximum 5,000 tasks per month
- Maximum of 1 TB of read bandwidth per month

## Seqera Enterprise

> If you are an Enterprise customer, you can use Fusion in both networked and air-gapped environments. Each approach necessitates a different license renewal workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are an Enterprise customer, you can use Fusion in both networked and air-gapped environments.
```

### License renewal for networked environments

> If your Platform installation has network access, license renewal occurs daily automatically. The following diagram illustrates the license renewal workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fusion license renewal occurs daily automatically. The following diagram illustrates the license renewal workflow.
```

![](./_images/fusion-license.svg)

### License renewal for air-gapped environments

> If your Platform installation is air-gapped, license renewal is handled manually, with Seqera supplying you with an updated license certificate annually. The following diagram illustrates the license renewal workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Platform installation is air-gapped, Seqera renews your license on an annual basis and provides a license certificate. The following diagram illustrates the license renewal workflow.
```
